<doc id="1" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1" title="April">
April

April is the fourth month of the year, and comes between March and May. It has 30 days. April begins on the same day of week as July in all years and also January in leap years.
April's flowers are the Sweet Pea and Daisy. Its birthstone is the diamond. The meaning of the diamond is innocence.
The Month.
April comes between March and May, making it the fourth month of the year. It also comes first in the year out of the four months that have 30 days, as June, September and November are later in the year. It starts on the same day of the week as July every year, and starts on the same day as January in leap years. In a common year, April starts on the same day of the week as October of the previous year, and in leap years starts on the same day as May of the previous year.
April ends on the same day of the week as December every year. In a common year, it ends on the same day as July of the previous year. In a leap year, it ends on the same day as October of the previous year.
April is a spring month in the Northern Hemisphere and an autumn/fall month in the Southern Hemisphere. In each hemisphere, it is the seasonal equivalent of October in the other.
It is unclear as to where April got its name. A common theory is that it comes from the Latin word "aperire", meaning "to open", referring to flowers opening in spring. Another theory is that the name could come from Aphrodite, the Greek goddess of love. It was originally the second month in the old Roman Calendar, before the start of the new year was put to January 1.
Quite a few festivals are held in this month. In many Southeast Asian cultures, new year is celebrated in this month (including Songkran). In Western Christianity, Easter can be celebrated on a Sunday between March 22 and April 25. In Orthodox Christianity, it can fall between April 4 and May 8. At the end of the month, Central and Northern European cultures celebrate Walpurgis Night on April 30, marking the transition from winter into summer.
April in poetry.
Poets use "April" to mean the end of winter. For example: "April showers bring May flowers."

</doc>
<doc id="2" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2" title="August">
August

August is the eighth month of the year in the Gregorian calendar, coming between July and September. It has 31 days, the same number of days as the previous month, July, and is named after Roman Emperor Augustus Caesar.
The Month.
This month was first called "Sextilis" in Latin, because it was the sixth month in the old Roman calendar. The Roman calendar began in March about 735 BC with Romulus. October was the eighth month. August was the eighth month when January or February were added to the start of the year by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC. Or, when those two months were moved from the end to the beginning of the year by the decemvirs about 450 BC (Roman writers disagree). In 153 BC January 1 was determined as the beginning of the year.
August is named for Augustus Caesar who became Roman consul in this month. The month has 31 days because Julius Caesar added two days when he created the Julian calendar in 45 BC. August is after July and before September.
August, in either hemisphere, is the seasonal equivalent of February in the other. In the Northern hemisphere it is a summer month and it is a winter month in the Southern hemisphere. In a common year, no other month begins on the same day of the week as August, though in leap years, February starts on the same day as August. August always ends on the same day of the week as November.
August's flower is the Gladiolus with the birthstone being peridot. The astrological signs for August are Leo (July 24 - August 22) and Virgo (August 23 - September 23).

</doc>
<doc id="6" url="https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6" title="Art">
Art

Art is an activity or creation by people that has importance because of an attraction to the human senses. Art is made when a human expresses himself or herself. Some art is useful in a practical sense, such as a sculptured clay bowl that one can put things in. Many people disagree on how to define art. Many people say people are driven to make art due to their inner creativity. Art includes drawing, painting, sculpting, photography, performance art, dance, music, poetry, prose and theatre.
Types of art.
Art is divided into the plastic arts, where something is made, and the performing arts, where something is done by humans in action. The other division is between pure arts, done for themselves, and practical arts, done for a practical purpose, but with artistic content.
What "art" means.
Some people say that art is a product or item that is made with the intention of stimulating the human senses as well as the human mind or spirit.
An artwork is normally judged by how much impact it has on people, the amount of people who can relate to it, and how much people appreciate it.
The first and broadest sense of "art" means "arrangement" or "to arrange." In this sense, art is created when someone arranges things found in the world into a new or different design or form; or when someone arranges colors next to each other in a painting to make an image or just to make a pretty or interesting design.
Art can also be a form of expression of emotion. The artist may feel a certain emotion and feels there is no other way to express it than to create something that means something to them. Most of the art created in this case is made for the artist rather than an audience. Though if an audience is able to connect with the emotion as well, then the art work will become publicly successful.
History of art.
There are sculptures, cave painting and rock art dating from the Upper Paleolithic era.
All of the great ancient civilizations, such as Ancient Egypt, India, China, Greece, Rome or Arabia had works and styles of art. In the Middle Ages, most of the art in Europe showed people from the Bible in paintings, stained glass windows, and mosaic tile floors and walls.
Islamic art includes geometric patterns, Islamic calligraphy, and architecture. In India and Tibet, painted sculptures, dance, and religious painting were done. In China, arts included jade carving, bronzework, pottery, poetry, calligraphy, music, painting, drama, and fiction. There are many Chinese artistic styles, which are usually named after the ruling dynasty.
In Europe, after the Middle Ages, there was a "Renaissance" which means "rebirth". People rediscovered science and artists were allowed to paint subjects other than religious subjects. People like Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci still painted religious pictures, but they also now could paint mythological pictures too. These artists also invented perspective where things in the distance look smaller than things close up in the picture. This was new because in the Middle Ages people would paint all the figures close up and just overlapping each other.
In the late 1800s, artists in Europe, responding to Modernity created many new painting styles such as Classicism, Romanticism, Realism, and Impressionism. The history of twentieth century art includes Expressionism, Fauvism, Cubism, Dadaism, Surrealism, and Minimalism.
Roles of art.
In some societies, people think that art belongs to the person who made it, such as Indigenous Aboriginal Australian Art. They think that the artist put his or her "talent" into the art. In this view, the art is the property of the artist.
In other societies, people think that art belongs to no one. They think that society has put its social capital into the artist and the artist's work. In this view, society is a collective that has made the art, through the artist.
Functions of art.
The functions of art include:
1) Cognitive function
2) Aesthetic function
3) Prognostic function
4) Recreation function
5) Value function
6) Didactic function

</doc>